# CS305-H7111_Software_Security
This is a portfolio submission for Southern New Hampshire University regarding the Software Security course, CS305-H7111.

Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a financial consulting company that creates custom financial plans for savings, retirements, investments, and insurance. For this project, their software requirements were to examine the existing software and address any security vulnerabilities which included but was not limited to: adding a file verification in the form of a checksum to ensure secure data transfers, implementing an encryption algorithm cipher, generating self-signed certificates, removing any dependencies found, and refactor any code necessary in establishing secure protocols and practices. The deliverable was to meet and exceed a secure, production quality application.

What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
What I did particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities was was to assess the vulnerabilities, identify what needed to be addressed and implemented, then articulated my findings in a clear and concise presentation. It is important to code securely because at the end of the day, if data is not transferred securely, then the data we work so hard to protect may be compromised. Data integrity is a foundational cornerstone for companies who rely on a digital interface for their livelihood, such as that of financial institutions like Artemis Financial. Software security provides such companies with peace of mind and a cushion of assurance so they do not have to worry about whether their customers can trust them with their private financial data.

What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?
The most challenging part of the assessment was assessing the Maven dependency check report for security vulnerabilities; however, doing so is also one of the most helpful security checks to perform. The more you understand the nature of vulnerabilities as a developer, the more security you can provide for your applications.

How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?
In approaching the need to increase layers of security, I assessed the needs of the client through the process of interpreting client needs, identifying any government restrictions about secure communications, assessing external threats (both present and in the immediate future), and referring to a Vulerability Assessment Process Flow Diagram that allowed me to get a visualization for which areas of security were applicable to those needs. Once I identified these key areas of security, these served as my focal points for coming up with a mitigation plan to address the vulnerabilities. This technique works very well in assessing vulnerabilities so I would likely utilize this strategy in determining future mitigation plans.

How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
I ensured the code and software application were functional and secure by performing secondary testing using the dependency check tool, then by performing functional testing to identify logical, syntacticial, and security vulnerabilities. By using the Maven dependency check tool, I was able to see how many vulnerabities were being identified when the check was ran. Then, I created a suppression.xml file where I was able to place suppressions of alleged false positive "Common  Platform Enumeration" (CPE) identifiers. After each suppression, I could run a dependency check report to see if any new vulnerabilities were introduced. In this case, new vulnerabilities were in fact introduced with each suppression, so all suppressions were removed prior to deployment.

What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?
One coding practice I did employ that I found helpful was to utilize a commercial grade toolkit for Windows called OpenSSL which allowed me to become my own Certificate Authority (CA) and signed my own SSL certificates. This could be helpful for future assignments where I need to generate self-signed certificates for implementing the HTTPS protocol, also known as HTTP over SSL.

Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?
I would likely showcase my implementation of the secure code so the employer has an idea of my coding style with the primary interest of seeing if I'm a good fit for their company needs.
